.TH GIT-COPY 1 "2024-05-22" "git-copy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-copy \- copy files or directories from another branch without switching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git copy
.RI [ --force ]
.RI [ --commit ]
.IR branch 
.IR source
.RI [ destination ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-copy
is a lightweight custom Git command for copying files or folders from another
branch into the current working tree without changing your checked out branch.
It lets you grab a specific script, config, or directory from another branch
without merging or cherry-picking.
.P
The command validates that the source branch and path exist before copying.
When the target already exists, it prompts before overwriting unless the
.B --force
flag is provided.
Passing
.B --commit
stages and commits the copied path immediately with an auto-generated message.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --force
Skip the overwrite confirmation prompt when the destination path already
exists.
.TP
.B --commit
Automatically stage and commit the copied file or directory after it has been
copied.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Works with files and folders
Use the same command for single files or entire directories.
.TP
.B Safe by default
Validates branches and paths before copying, and confirms overwrites unless
.B --force
is used.
.TP
.B Efficient for directories
Relies on
.BR git-archive (1)
under the hood to copy directories quickly without polluting your working
history.
.TP
.B No external dependencies
Implemented entirely in POSIX shell so it works anywhere Git is available.
.TP
.B Optional auto-commit
Use
.B --commit
to stage and commit the copied path in the same command.
.SH HOW IT WORKS
.IP \(bu 2
For files it runs
.BR "git show" " " "<branch>:<path>"
 and writes the contents into your working tree.
.IP \(bu 2
For directories it streams
.BR git-archive (1)
for the requested branch and folder into a temporary directory and then
synchronises it into your working tree.
.P
Your index stays untouched because nothing gets checked out or merged unless
you opt into the auto-commit workflow.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Copy a single file from another branch
.EX
$ git copy feature/new-cleanup src/scripts/cleanup.sh
.EE
.TP
Copy an entire directory
.EX
$ git copy feature/tooling-updates src/utils
.EE
.TP
Copy and commit in one step
.EX
$ git copy --commit feature/new-cleanup src/scripts/cleanup.sh
.EE
.SH WORKFLOW EXAMPLE
Grab a fix from another branch and commit it locally.
.EX
$ git copy tasks/fix-cleanup-script src/scripts/cleanup.sh
$ git add src/scripts/cleanup.sh
$ git commit -m "Update cleanup script from fix-cleanup-script branch"
.EE
.P
Or let the tool commit for you.
.EX
$ git copy --commit tasks/fix-cleanup-script src/scripts/cleanup.sh
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR git-archive (1),
.BR git-show (1)
